hello again everybody this is laszlo
Montgomery here bringing you another
nice Chung you for your personal
collection I'm not sure if today's
Chinese saying is my all time favorite
but it's right up there remember I said
most all Chung you Chinese proverbs or
idioms are only four characters four
syllables long well not this one no
today's Chung you is five characters
Chen Li sung oh ma twenty percent more
syllables than usual and there's a
follow up that goes along with this five
character proverb that's also five
characters long li qing cheng yi jeong
so in toto this one we're going to look
at today is a whopping 10 characters
long that don't get too scared or too
concerned I assure you from decades of
experience if you just say the first
five that'll suffice and most all
circumstances Chen Li sung oh ma let me
break that one down for you GN means a
thousand Li means a mile but
specifically a Chinese mile which was
about a third of a mile so Chen Li means
a thousand Li her thousand miles the
actual distance is not important because
Chandi back in the seventh century was a
long journey and that's something
undertaken lightly or on a whim song
means to send Oh means a swan mall means
feather it's also the same character as
in mala to the dome chairman mao
chairman feather so jen lee seung mo
1000 Lee sent swan feather hmm once
again like most of these Chung you these
characters that are strung together they
don't appear to have any obvious meaning
that means there must be a story or
something behind it that reveals the
hidden meaning well indeed there is and
this story begins almost but not quite
1400 years ago the 7th century the
beginning of the fantastic and glorious
tongue dynasty well not all of the
tongue but most of it in past China
history podcast
episodes we looked at one of the costars
of our story today and he was the tights
own emperor because he reigned during
the Tang dynasties generally known as
tongue tight song now this tight song
Emperor isn't the main character today's
hero was an official from the region
that is today you none and Burma and his
name was me n bucko now this official
was tasked by his King to go cozy up to
the tongue Emperor and to pay tribute
and do what all States and kingdoms did
back in those days present gifts and bow
before the Chinese emperor so this land
adjacent to Tang China where me and Paco
came from they wanted to show their
sincerity and devotion to the Emperor me
and Paco got all prepared for this long
journey to the capital of China the city
of chun on this is where modern day she
on is this is the place where you have
all the famous terracotta warriors and
that the tomb of Qin Shi Huang is one of
the top tourist destinations in all of
China now if you ask me I think this
official could have been given a
different choice of gift to take to the
tight zone Emperor but someone and all
their wisdom and sagacity decided upon
this beautiful snowy white swan as the
primary gift now perhaps there was
something special about the white swans
down in this part of southwest China and
Burma so off men baka went in a
northerly direction to the richest
largest most spectacular city on planet
earth at that time the city of Chung Yun
that he had beautiful white swan placed
in this travel basket and had everything
he required for the journey packed up
now I'm not sure exactly from where he
set out but the journey he was about to
take i'm estimating from around
present-day kunming in Yunnan Province
to Xian that's about thousand kilometers
about 620 miles well off he went Swan
and all to go do his duty and shoeshine
the Emperor with this gift and make sure
their little corner of the Far East
stayed on China's good side he got as
far as hebei province
but halfway there the most famous city
and who pays of course the city of wuhan
right on the Yangtze River longest river
in China third longest in the world also
known in Hollywood as the Yangtze there
was a little town maybe a hundred
kilometers away to the west of wuhan
called gentle and nearby was a lake lake
pie pie hole and right on the banks of
this pie hole me and Paco took a
breather and decided to allow the white
swan they have a nice drink and at the
same time he figured he'd give this Swan
a little wash and brighten them up a bit
to his natural snowy white color poor
guy with half the journey over tragedy
befell him while he was trying to give
this thing a bath The Swan saw an
opening and off he flew gone in an
instant leaving nothing behind except a
single feather that floated back down to
the water me and Paco took the feather
in his hand and contemplated his
predicament now etiquette dictated he
couldn't show up empty-handed but all he
had left to offer the Emperor was this
one single feather so me and Paco
decided he just write a poem on a piece
of silk that earnestly explained the
circumstances and then he wrapped this
swan feather in the silk and continued
on his way and he arrived at the Royal
Palace and had his big moment to koh tao
before the tight song Emperor to present
his gift and when the great tight zone
Emperor read the poem he was so
delighted and moved that he presented
men walk out with gifts of silk tea jade
and other royal baubles what men baka
said in his poem was that he was
presenting a swan feather from a
thousand Li away or a thousand miles
away if you will then he followed these
characters up with the second part five
more characters not only is this swan
feather from a thousand miles away but
also the ching ching ye jo lee as a gift
King means light as in wait Chingy means
affection or positive feeling
behind some action and Joan means heavy
as in weight so li ching ching ye Joan
the gift is light meaning it isn't much
but regardless of its lack of monetary
value of the meaning behind it is deep
and profound so men ball go in his poem
presented to the great tongue-tied song
said here is a swan feather from a
thousand Li away the gift is a mere
trifle but it represents great feelings
and meaning from the people of that part
of China and as I said the tight song
Emperor he got it he understood what it
all meant and was appropriately moved on
hearing the whole story and he showered
me n polka with the usual array of door
prizes the Emperor bestowed on those who
came to bow before him present gifts and
pay tribute so next time you pick up
some tchotchke at some store that you
wanted to give someone well if its value
was nothing special but you put a lot of
thought into it you can always say that
this is a Chen Li so mo mo li ching
ching he jiong this is a swan feather
from a thousand miles away that the gift
is a trifle it conveys great meaning but
again I want to reiterate if you just
say Chen Lee Seong mo you're totally
okay someone who is a native speaker of
Chinese knows the five characters that
are supposed to follow if you can't
remember them no big deal ok that's
going to be it for this time la Isla
Montgomery here signing off from Los
Angeles and wishing you all the very
best go check out our brother and sister
podcast the China history podcast in the
China vintage our those two and this
exact same Chinese sayings podcast are
all available at teacup dot media that's
teacup dot media open 24 7 365 days a
year take care everyone and please be my
guest next time for another wholesome
and satisfying episode of the Chinese
sayings podcast